OceanofPDF .com

2 Talking to Humans
5 Acclaim for T alking to Humans
8 Foreword
11 Introduction
14 The Story
28 Lessons Learned
30 How To
31 Getting Started with Customer Discovery
32 Who Do Y ou W ant to Learn From?
36 What Do Y ou W ant to Learn?
44 How Do Y ou Find Y our Interview Subjects?
51 How to Ensure an Ef fective Session?
58 How Do Y ou Make Sense of What Y ou Learn?
65 Conclusion
66 Appendix
67 Cold Approach Examples
70 Business Assumptions Exercise
73 Teaching Exercise #1: Mock Interviews
75 Teaching Exercise #2: Mock Approach
77 Screwing Up Customer Discovery
81 Glossary
83 Other Learning Resources
84 Behind the Book
87 Like The Book?
 
 

Talking to Humans
Success starts with understanding your customers
 
 
 
By Gif f Constable
with Frank Rimalovski
Foreword by Steve Blank
Illustrations by T om Fishburne

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Copyright ©2014 Gif f Constable
First edition, v1.72
All rights reserved.
 
Book design: Gif f Constable
Illustrations by T om Fishburne
Cover design assistance: Jono Mallanyk
Lean Startup is trademarked by Eric Ries
Customer Discovery is a phrase coined by Steve Blank
 
ISBN: 978-0-9908009-1-0

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special thanks to the NYU Entr epreneurial Institute for their collaboration
and support in the cr eation of T alking to Humans

 

Acclaim for T alking to Humans
“If you are teaching entrepreneurship or running a startup accelerator , you
need to make it required reading for your students and teams. I have.”
Steve Blank, entr epreneur , educator and author of
Four Steps to the Epiphany  and The Startup Owner ’s Manual
 
“If entrepreneurship 101 is talking to customers, this is the
syllabus. Talking to Humans  is a thoughtful guide to the customer
informed product development that lies at the foundation of
successful start-ups.”
Phin Barnes, Partner , First Round Capital
 
“Getting started on your Customer Discovery journey is the most
important step to becoming a successful entrepreneur and reading
Talking T o Humans  is the smartest first step to finding and solving
real problems for paying customers.”
Andr e Mar quis, Executive Dir ector , Lester Center for
Entr epreneurship, University of California Berkeley
 
“A lot of entrepreneurs pay lip service to talking to customers but
you have to know how . Talking to Humans  offers concrete
examples on how to how to recruit candidates, how to conduct
interviews, and how to prioritize learning from customers more
through listening versus talking.”
Ash Maurya, Founder Spark59 and Author of Running Lean
 
“This is a great how-to guide for entrepreneurs that provides
practical guidance and examples on one of the most important and
often under practiced requirements of building a great startup—
getting out of the of fice, talking directly with customers and
partners, and beginning the critical process of building a
community .”

David Ar onoff, General Partner , Flybridge Capital
 
“Giff has been one of the thought leaders in the lean startup
movement from the very beginning. Entrepreneurs in all industries
will find Talking to Humans  practical, insightful, and incredibly
useful.”
Patrick Vlaskovits, New Y ork T imes bestselling author of T he Lean
Entpreneur
 
“Current and future customers are the best source of feedback and
insight for your new product ideas. T alking to them is intimidating
and seemingly time-consuming. In this focused, practical, down-to-
earth book Gif f Constable demystifies the art (not science) of
customer discovery helping entrepreneurs and product veterans
alike learn how to build a continuous conversation with their
market and ensure the best chances of success for their ideas. W ant
to know what your audience is thinking? Read this book!”
Jeff Gothelf, author of LeanUX
 
“When getting ‘out of the building,’ too many people crash and
burn right out of the gate and wonder what happened. Talking to
Humans  is a quick and ef fective guide for how Lean Startup
interviews should be done: who to talk to, how to talk your way in
the door , and how to gain the most insight and learning. Don’ t
crash and burn – read Talking to Humans !”
Dean Chang, Associate V ice Pr esident for Innovation &
Entr epreneurship, University of Maryland
 
“A must read for anyone who is considering creating a startup,
developing a new product or starting a new division. Read this
book first – a great guide to the evolving art of customer discovery .
Don’ t waste your time building products that your customer may or

may not want. Before you write the first line of code, pitch your
idea to investors or build the first prototype, do your self a favor ,
read this book and follow the advice! I guarantee you will make
better decisions, build a better product and have a more successful
company .”
John Burke, Partner , True V entur es
 
“Primary market research has been around for a long time because
it has stood the test of time and proved that it is fundamental to
building a successful venture; it underlies all that we do at MIT in
entrepreneurship. The question is how we more broadly deployed
appropriate skills to entrepreneurs so they can be guided to do this
in an ef ficient and ef fective manner while maintaining rigor . With
all the sloganeering out there on the topic, this book stands out in
that it delivers real value to the practitioner in this regard.”
Bill Aulet, Managing Dir ector , Martin T rust Center for MIT
Entr epreneurship
 
“Talking to strangers can be scary , but it’ s vital to launching any
new product. Through storytelling, Gif f Constable makes customer
development concepts accessible. This book will show you how to
articulate assumptions, get useful information and turn it into
meaningful insights. Then it delivers practical advice you can use
immediately to test your ideas. Fear holds people back. This book
will give you the confidence to jump.”
Andr es Glusman, Chief Strategy Officer , Meetup.com

 

Foreword
“Get out of the building!” That’ s been the key lesson in building startups
since I first started teaching customer development and the Lean Launchpad
curriculum in 2002. Since then, a lot has happened.
 
The concepts I first outlined in my book The Four Steps to the Epiphany
have grown into an international movement: The Lean Startup. The class I
developed - The Lean Launchpad - is now taught at Stanford, UC Berkeley ,
Columbia University , UCSF , and most recently New Y ork University
(NYU). More than 200 college and university faculty have taken my Lean
Launchpad Educators Seminar , and have gone on to teach the curriculum at
hundreds of universities around the globe. The National Science
Foundation, and now the National Institute of Health, use it to
commercialize scientific research as part of their Innovation Corps (I-
Corps) program. My How to Build a Startup  class on Udacity has been
viewed by over 225,000 students worldwide. During the past few years,
we’ve seen dozens of lar ge companies including General Electric,
Qualcomm and Intuit begin to adopt the lean startup methodology .
 
The Lean Startup turns the decades-old formula of writing a business
plan, pitching it to investors, assembling a team, and launching and selling a
product on its head. While terms like “pivot” and “minimum viable
product” have become widely used, they are not understood by many . The
same can be said of “getting out of the building”. Many entrepreneurs “get
out” and get in front of customers, but take a simplistic view and ask their
customers what they want, or if they would buy their startup’ s (half-baked)
product. The “getting out” part is easy . It is the application of the customer
development methodology and the testing of their hypotheses with users,
customers and partners that is both critical and often dif ficult for
entrepreneurs to grasp in the search for a scalable and repeatable business
model.

 
Since the Four Steps, many other books have been written on customer
development including The Startup Owner ’s Manual , Business Model
Generation , The Lean Startup , and others. Each of these texts has advanced
our understanding of the customer development methodology in one way or
another , teaching aspiring students and entrepreneurs the what, when and
why we should get out of the building, but have only skimmed the surface
on “how” to get out of the building.
 
For both my own classes as well as I-Corps, I always made Gif f
Constable’ s blog post “12 T ips for Early Customer Development
Interviews” required reading. It answered the “how” question as well. Now
Giff has turned those 12 tips into an entire book of great advice.
 
In a comprehensive, yet concise and accessible manner , Talking to
Humans  teaches you how to get out of the building. It guides students and
entrepreneurs through the critical elements: how to find interview
candidates, structure and conduct ef fective interviews and synthesize your
learning. Gif f provides ample anecdotes as well as useful strategies, tactics
and best practices to help you hit the ground running in your customer
discovery interviews.
 
If you are a student, aspiring entrepreneur or product manager trying to
bring the value of getting out of the building to an existing company ,
Talking to Humans  is a must read. It is chock full of lessons learned and
actionable advice that will enable you to make the most of your time out of
the building.
 
Talking to Humans  is the perfect complement to the existing body of
work on customer development. If you are teaching entrepreneurship or
running a startup accelerator , you need to make it required reading for your
students and teams. I have.

 
Steve Blank
September 3, 2014

 

Introduction
The art of being a great entrepreneur is finding the right balance between
vision and reality . You are probably opening this book because you want to
put something new in the world. That’ s an incredibly powerful and
meaningful endeavor . It’s also scary and extremely risky . How can you get
ahead of that risk and beat the odds?
Every new business idea is built upon a stack of assumptions. W e agree
with Steve Blank’ s insight that it is better to challenge your risky
assumptions right at the start. Y ou can’ t challenge anything sitting in a
conference room. Y ou have to get into the market, or , as Blank likes to say ,
“Get out of the building!”
There are two ef fective ways to do thi s: 1. talk directly to your customers
and partners, and observe their behavior; 2. run experiments in which you
put people through an experience and track what happens.
This book focuses on the first. The qualitative part of customer discovery
is surprisingly hard for most people, partly because talking to strangers can
feel intimidating, and partially because our instincts on how to do it are
often wrong.
 
Here’s what customer discovery is not : It is not asking people to design
your product for you. It is not about abdicating your vision. It is also not
about pitching. A natural tendency is to try to sell other people on your
idea, but your job in customer discovery is to learn.

 
You ar e a detective.
 
You are looking for clues that help confirm or deny your assumptions.
Whether you are a tiny startup or an intrapreneurial team within a big
company , your goal is not to compile statistically significant answers.
Instead you want to look for patterns that will help you make better
decisions. Those decisions should lead to action, and smart action is what
you need for success.
 

This bo ok was written as a focused primer on qualitative research to help
you get started. Y ou should view it as a complement to the other excellent
resources out there on customer development and lean innovation. It is not a
rulebook, but hopefully you will find the principles included here useful.
The book comes in two parts. It begins with a fictional story of two
entrepreneurs doing customer research for the first time. The second part is
a mix of theory and tactics to guide you through the core steps of customer
discovery . While the fictional story highlights a consumer -facing business, I
should note that there are plenty of tips in this book for teams who sell to
the enterprise.
Some last words to kick things of f: entrepreneurs have a tendency to
over-obsess about their product to the neglect of other business risks. They
also tend to stay inside their heads for far too long. I ur ge you to be brave,
get out of the building, and go talk to real human beings.
 
Giff Constable
August 2014
 
 
 
 
 
Some Thanks  Are Due
Many thanks to Frank Rimalovski for encouraging me to write this, and his students and team at
NYU for providing early feedback, Steve Blank for the foreword and his inspiration and leadership
on the topic of entrepreneurship, T om Fishburne for his great illustrations, Josh Seiden and Jef f
Gothelf for their insights , my colleagues at Neo for continuing to push forward the craft of customer
development, the many speakers and members of New Y ork’s Lean Lessons Learned  meetup who
have shared their stories with me, and Eric Ries for inspiring me and so many others.

 

PART ONE
The Story
Breakthr ough
Koshi and Roberta had so much adrenaline pumping through their systems
that neither could sleep that night. After a year of challenging lab work,
they had finally cracked it. They were now sure they could manufacture
artificial down feathers cost-ef fectively . Their insomnia was ironic, since
their very dream was to transform the quality of people’ s sleep through the
invention of a better pillow .
They knew they had a technical advantage. Their artificial down had
heightened levels of insulation, a better resilience/resistance quotient, and
was kinder to both animals and the environment.
 
Now the question was, did they have a business?
 
The Advisor
They called a meeting with their entrepreneurial advisor the next day .
Samantha had built four companies, successfully exiting two of them. She
was now an angel investor and believed firmly in giving back by working
with first-time entrepreneurs.
 
“We finally cracked it!” Roberta blurted out.

“What she means,” Koshi said, “is that we’re convinced we can
manufacture NewDown in a cost-ef fective and repeatable manner . Now we
think we can make a real business.”
 
“So you want to know if the time has come to jump in feet first?” asked
Samantha. The two scientists nodded. “If you want to be successful
bringing something to market, you need to understand the market. Do you
feel like you know when and why people buy pillows today?”
“Not really ,” Roberta said. “W e’ve spent our time in the lab focused on
the product side.”
“I suspected so. Founders commonly obsess about product at the expense
of understanding the customer or the business model. Y ou need to work on
it all, and you have to challenge your thinking. Behind your startup is a
belief system about how your business will work. Some of your
assumptions will be right, but the ones that are wrong could crater your
business. I want you to get ahead of the risky hypotheses that might cause
failure.”
 
Samantha had the founders list out the riskiest hypotheses.
 
1. We believe that people care about sleep quality when making a
pillow purchase decision.
2. We believe that we can sell online directly to customers.
3. We believe that our customers will be young urban professionals.
4. We believe that our very first customers will be new graduates
who need to outfit their apartments.
5. We believe that we can sell our pillows at a high enough price to
cover our costs.
6. We believe that we can raise enough capital to cover investments
in manufacturing.
 
“Let’ s put aside the fundraising risk right now ,” Samantha said. “It’ s what
everyone jumps to, but you need to strengthen your story first. Many of

your risks are tied to your customer . I like attacking a problem from
multiple directions and recommend three approaches. First, I want you to
walk a day in your customer ’s shoes and actually go out and buy a pillow .
Second, I want you to observe people in the process of buying a pillow .
And third, I want you to talk directly to them.”
 
“Talk to people?” said Koshi. “I’m a scientist, not a salesperson. If I
simply asked someone if my pillow was better , they would have no idea. If
I asked them if they would buy my pillow , I couldn’ t trust the answer . So
what is the point?”
 
“Your job right now isn’ t to sell, but rather to learn. Y ou are right,
though: getting the customer to speculate is rarely useful,” Samantha said.
“You need to understand your market. How does your customer buy? When
do they buy? Why do they buy? Where do they buy? As a scientist, you are
fully capable of doing research, gathering data, and seeing if your data
supports your hypotheses. I promise you, if you are polite and creative,
people will be more receptive to you than you might think.”
 
“Buying. Observing. T alking. Do we really need to do all three? Can we
really af ford to spend the time?”
 
“Can you af ford not to? Each of the three approaches is imperfect, but
together you should see patterns. By walking in your customer ’s shoes you
will gain empathy and personal understanding, but you don’ t want to rely
solely on your own experience. By watching people shop, you can witness
honest behavior , but you won’ t be able to get into their heads to know their
motivations. By talking to people, you gather intel on both behavior and
motivation, but you have to be careful not to take what you hear too
literally . Each method has strengths and weaknesses, but taken together you
will learn a ton. Y ou will have a lot more confidence that you are either on
the right track, or that you have to make changes to your plans. It is far

better to discover bad assumptions now , before you have invested a lot!
Now , how do you think you should proceed?”
 
“We want our customers to buy online from us, so I guess we should also
buy our own pillow online,” said Roberta. “And we can observe people
shopping by going to a home goods store.”
 
“That sounds good,” said Samantha. “Y ou will want to talk to some of
those people in the store as well. I see one catch: you will be tar geting the
moment of purchase but not the type of customer you are hoping for . One of
your risk assumptions was specifically about young urban professionals and
new graduates, so what can you also do to tar get and connect with them?”
 
“What about going to a cof fee shop near the downtown of fice buildings
as people are going to work?” Koshi said.
 
“Can’ t we just hit up some of the people we used to know in college who
are now in the working world?” Roberta said.
 
“Why don’ t you try both, and see which approach works better ,” said
Samantha. “Roberta, I would also ask your friends if they will refer you to
their friends. It’s best to talk to people who aren’ t too close to you. Y ou
don’t want a someone’ s affection for you to steer what they have to say .
“Let’ s start by thinking through the questions you want to ask. It always
makes sense to prioritize what you want to learn. Y ou should write down an
interview plan, even if you don’ t completely stick to it. Break the ice, and
then get them to tell you a story about buying a pillow!”
 
The scientists sketched out a plan:
 
Intro: hello, I’m a PhD candidate at Hillside University and I’m
researching sleep quality . I’m asking people about the last time they

bought a pillow . Would you mind if I asked a few questions?
When was the last time you bought a pillow?
Why did you go looking for a pillow?
How did you start shopping for a pillow?
Why did you choose the one you bought?
After you bought, how did you feel about the pillow you purchased?
Are you going to be in the market for a pillow anytime soon?
 
“That’ s a great start,” Samantha said. “Keep good notes as you go, and
remember to regularly regroup to review your findings and look for
patterns. Be mindful of which method you used as you discuss your
observations.”
 
Walking in the Customer ’s Shoes
Koshi and Roberta got together the next day after both purchasing a pillow
online.
 
“I found it all a bit frustrating,” said Roberta. “It was hard to learn why
you would choose down feathers, cotton, or foam. The manufacturer
websites felt like they were from the 1990s. There were some reviews
available on Amazon and Bed Bath & Beyond, which helped. In my
interpretation, about 65% of reviews talked about sleep quality , which
seems like a good sign for our first risk. A lot of the reviews had to do with
personal preference for firm versus soft pillows. I think we can of fer both
kinds eventually , but we likely need to choose one at the beginning and that
could impact some of our assumptions around market size. ”
 
“I started out by searching Google,” said Koshi. “Amazon and BB&B
dominated the results, as we expected, but there were a few specialty
providers like BestPillow that ranked high. BestPillow lets you navigate
their website by sleep issue, such as snoring or neck pain, which I found
interesting. While I see some makers pushing hypoaller genic of ferings, I

didn’ t see anyone who could meet our claims of being environmentally
friendly . I agree that all the manufacturer websites felt ancient. I think
there’ s an opportunity to be smart about search engine optimization and
really stand out if we can get the messaging right. I guess our next step is to
visit the retail stores.”
 
Observing the Customer
Roberta ended up going to a Bed Bath & Beyond while Koshi went to a
local department store. She watched three dif ferent people come in and pick
through several dif ferent pillows, puzzling over the packaging material.
One of them asked a store employee for help, and two pulled out their
mobile phones to look online. She then watched a woman go right to a
particular shelf, grab a pillow and head back to the aisle. Roberta’ s plan was
to balance observation and interaction, so she decided to jump in. “Pardon
me,” she said “I am trying to figure out which pillow to purchase and
noticed that you went right to that one. Might I ask why you chose that
pillow?”
“Oh, I replaced some ratty old pillows in my house a few weeks ago,” the
woman said, “and I liked this one so much that I thought I would replace
my whole set.”
“Do you mind if I ask how you decided to buy that pillow in the first
place? My name is Roberta, by the way .”
“Nice to meet you, Roberta. I’m Susan. W ell, I guess I started by
researching online and...”
 
A day later , the founders met to compare notes.
 
“The BB&B had good foot traf fic,” Roberta said, “and I was able to
watch fifteen people, and speak to te n. Of the ten, one knew what she
wanted going into the store, three were basing their purchase just on
packaging and store price, and six did Google searches on their phones,

right there in the store. They were looking up reviews and pricing. Y ou
mentioned search engine optimization earlier — I think it could be even
stronger with a fabulous mobile experience.”
She looked down at her notes. “I also found that seven out of ten were
trying to choose a pillow specifically for better sleep, although their sleep
problems were diverse. Finally , when I asked them why they were buying a
pillow , the folks over 40 seemed to be in replacement mode, while the folks
under 40 seemed to be reacting to a life change. Two people were moving
to a bigger house from an apartment. Another person was moving in with
their girlfriend, and another said that she got a new job and could now
afford nicer things.”
 
“I went to the home goods section of a high-end department store,” said
Koshi. “I saw eighteen people, and five of them knew what they wanted
already . The rest spent time puzzling over the packaging and, like your
group, going online with their mobile phone. I spoke to nine shoppers. I
said that I was a scientist trying to invent a new pillow . People thought that
was pretty cool. T wo of them admitted that they were buying the highest
price pillow because they assumed that it had to be the best. Two got the
cheapest because it was the cheapest. The others had specific preferences
for down, cotton or foam based on the firmness they were looking for in a
pillow . The firmness preference seemed to be tied to a belief that they
would sleep more soundly . On price, I was relieved to see that the prices of
the better pillows were in line with what we were hoping to char ge.”
 
Roberta pulled out a pad. “So we saw thirty-three people and spoke to
nineteen. Our sample set is still small, but Samantha told us to look for
patterns and not worry about statistical significance right now . If we break
our observations into a few metrics, what have we learned?”
 
• 24% of shoppers knew what they wanted when they walked in
• 52% looked up information on their phone in the store

• 45% of shoppers purchased a mid-priced or high-priced pillow
• 68% of the people we spoke to indicated that better sleep was a
major driver of their choice
• 37% of the people we spoke to were reacting to a life change
• 37% of the people we spoke to were in replacement mode
 
“I think the use of mobile phones is something we need to pay attention
to and work into our strategy ,” Koshi said. “I guess for our next step, we
should follow Samantha’ s suggestions to tar get urban professionals.”
 
Regr ouping
A week and many interviews later , the team sat down with Samantha.
 
“How did things go?” she asked.
 
“I went to a downtown cof fee shop at peak hour ,” Koshi said. “At first,
everyone was in such a hurry to get to work that I didn’ t get much response,
but then I made a little sign I held up outside that promised ‘cof fee for
science,’ which started to get laughs and a lot of curiosity . I ended up
talking to about fifteen people who matched our tar get of young urban
professionals. I got to talk to them for about five to twenty minutes each. It
was actually very enjoyable.
“One clear pattern was that people right out of school tended to have no
clue. They either had never bought a pillow themselves, or if they had, it
had been the cheapest thing they could get. A few admitted that they were
probably going to buy new bedding. I know it is speculation, but I asked
them to guess how they might go about looking for a pillow , based on how
they shop for other things. The common responses were searching on
Google or Amazon, or walking into a Bed Bath & Beyond.
“The few folks in their late r twenties or thirties wh om I spoke to had
usually bought at least one pillow — some from Amazon and some from
retailers. The ones who liked a firm pillow avoided down feathers. The ones

who wanted to upgrade to fancier duvets and high thread-count sheets all
seemed to go with duck and goose feathers. They didn’ t know any brands
and instead relied on product packaging. Amazon buyers did actually read
the reviews. All these folks were only planning on buying new pillows
when they were moving to a bigger apartment because they were getting
married or something.”
 
“Yes, that aligns with what we learned when we spoke to people in the
retail stores and what I saw with my other interviews,” said Roberta.
“Pillow buying seems to be tied to life events like moving and marriage and
such. I interviewed a dif ferent group. A whole bunch of our old classmates
responded to my email or my Facebook post. I even had some folks pass me
on to their friends, and so I got to talk to some people who didn’ t go to
school with us.
“Like you, I saw a lag ef fect after someone graduated from college. When
new graduates told me that they had not spent any money on their linens
yet, I inquired further and found out that their initial spending money was
predominately going towards clothes. I spoke to twelve people between 22
and 25, and roughly 60% had actually bought a pillow in the last few years.
I saw similar trends as you, although most went right to Google, Amazon or
a few specialty online retailers. It seemed like a very online crowd. The
price sensitive ones stayed away from down. They didn’ t have much to go
on for brand, but the reviews helped. The women definitely cared more
about quality and put more ef fort into their hunt.”
 
“The good news is that everyone thought inventing a new pillow was an
awesome idea!” said Koshi.
 
Samantha chuckled. “Of everything I’ve heard you say , that last bit is
probably the least useful. It’s easy to say something is cool. It’s another
thing to actually buy . The good news is, you are a lot more educated about
your market than you were last time we met. I see from your notes that you

have either spoken to or observed 72 people. W e should be able to see some
patterns from that. Let’ s revisit our critical assumptions.”
 
Challenging Assumptions
The team looked at their initial list.
 
1. We believe that people care about sleep quality when making a
purchase decision.
 
“68% of the retail shoppers indicated that this was a major factor ,” said
Roberta. “Of our young urban professionals, we were able to ask this of
only a portion of our interviewees. Only 56% indicated that it was a factor ,
but if we factor out the new graduates, it was more like 70%. W e’ve also
read a lot of online reviews and have seen this come up repeatedly . We feel
reasonably confident that this is a common decision point in choosing a
pillow ,” said Koshi.
“I’m glad you are approaching this with rigor and actually cal culating
metrics from your observations,” said Samantha. “That will prevent you
from letting innate biases override your actual results. However , one word
of advice. At this stage, don’ t take any of your statistics too literally and
don’t let any single number dominate your strategic thinking. Just as we’re
not looking for statistical significance at this point, we also don’ t want to
start treating our results as if they are indisputable facts. How about the next
assumption?”
 
2. We believe that we can sell online directly to customers.
 
“We have seen some promising signs. 77% of our urban professionals
start researching purchases with a search engine. The question is whether
they would discover , visit, or convert with our online store. W e did see a ton
of mobile usage in the retail stores and think there might be a chance to

steal those customers if we have good enough search engine optimization.
Overall, our conclusion is that we need more data here.”
 
3. We believe that our customers will be young urban professionals.
 
“I need to run some numbers on size of market and the number of
purchases we might expect from this group, but we still feel like this is a
good group for us. We clearly saw purchase behavior . They want, and can
afford, quality things, and prefer to buy things online.”
 
4. We believe that our very first customers will be new graduates
who need to outfit their apartments.
 
“This is where we were totally wrong. Buying behavior , or at least the
willingness to buy something that isn’ t the cheapest option, did not seem to
be very prevalent among new grads. Only 25% of the newly minted grads
we spoke with had purchased a pillow on their own. Instead, the evidence
points us towards people in their mid-to-late twenties or early thirties.
“We also saw a correlation between purchasing and life changes. While
this was only 37% with our retail shoppers, it was 70% of our urban
professionals. From an early adopter perspective, I wonder if we can do
well tar geting people who are getting married or moving to a lar ger
apartment or house?”
 
5. We believe we can sell our pillows at a high enough price to cover
our costs.
 
“45% of our retail shoppers bought at least a mid-priced pillow . We admit
that we visited reasonably high-end stores, but that was still a nice statistic
to see. The good news is that our initial tar get price is comparable with the
high-end of the current market. W e won’ t be profitable at the beginning, but

if we can scale and improve our manufacturing process then we can move
into the black. Of course, they have to want to buy our pillow .”
 
Samantha nodded. “T o test that, you will need to actually try selling a
few, which ties back to your second risk. But I’m glad you have spent time
learning rather than rushing to sell. Overall, it sounds like you have gotten
some solid intel. I’m also glad you caught the issue with college grads
before you spent a lot of money and ener gy trying to tar get them. Have your
efforts uncovered new risks or worries?”
 
“I’m both excited and worried by how confused customers are,” Koshi
said. “Every brand promises a better night’ s sleep. I’m also worried about
signals we picked up that the market might be divided into those who want
a firm pillow versus a soft pillow . We think that’ s erroneous thinking. Our
pillow lands in the middle, and our studies show better results. I don’ t know
if people will believe our data. W e really need to get the messaging right.”
 
“As for me,” Roberta said, “I’m most worried about the size of our initial
market, how quickly we could grow , and if we can survive to profitability .”
 
“I’m not surprised,” said Samantha. “I have some suggestions. One of
you should continue doing these interviews, but try adding a new spin. You
are both worried about dif ferentiation and if people will understand or
appreciate the proof from your scientific studies. Let’ s test some messaging.
Given what you have said about mobile usage, maybe create an infographic
that tries to make your case. Show it to people on a phone. Ask them to
explain it to you. First you can see if they understand it, and then if they
find it meaningful.
“Expanding from qualitative research, I also think one of you should
create a financial model that lets you play with how much you char ge, how
many items you might sell, and what your costs will be. Take into account
what you have learned so far and see if your business model adds up.

“Finally , I think you’ve learned enough to run some experiments around
customer acquisition and sales. It is straightforward to create a basic online
store using one of the hosted services. Y ou can test selling a few pillows
before you invest in manufacturing capability . Try driving traf fic through
Google or Facebook ads, and run some A/B tests around ad copy , landing-
page messaging and price points. Study your metrics. Then follow up with
your customers and interview them on their buying process and decision.”
 
Roberta’ s eyes widened. “W ow. Maybe we can get our first paying
customer!”
 
“Exactly ,” said Samantha. “Just remember Steve Blank’ s phrase about
startups: you are in search of a scalable and repeatable business model. Run
these experiments and keep in mind that your mission at this point is to
learn before you scale. Don’ t stop talking directly to customers. Y our
questions will likely evolve, but no matter what stage you are in, you’ll
usually find that your best insights will come from talking to real people
and observing real behavior .”

 

Lessons Learned
So what are the key takeaways from Roberta and Koshi’ s adventure?
 
1. Customer discovery is about gaining much deeper insight into your
customer , or your partners, or your market
2. Being told your idea is cool is not useful; seeing behavior that validates
your customer ’s willingness to buy is very useful
3. Prepare an interview guide before you get out of the building
4. To ask the right questions, you need to understand your risks and
assumptions
5. Get creative when trying to recruit people — if at first you don’ t succeed,
try something new
6. Sometimes observation is as powerful as interviews
7. Take good notes, especially on your key risks, so that you can calculate
metrics later . Even better , set your tar get goals ahead of time!
8. Bring learning back and analyze your patterns as a team
9. Never stop asking hard questions about your business
 
In the next section of this book, we’r e going to dive into tactics and talk
about all this and  more in detail.

 
 

PART TWO
How T o

Getting Started with Customer
Discovery
Qualitative research, i.e. talking to humans, is something you never want to
stop doing, but it can definitely feel intimidating at first. The good news is
that if you go about it in a professional and thoughtful way , you will find
lots of people who are willing to help and give you some of their valuable
time.
 
You need to begin with a core set of questions:
 
• Who do you want to learn from?
• What do you want to learn?
• How will you get to them?
• How can you ensure an ef fective session?
• How do you make sense of what you learn?

Who Do Y ou W ant to Learn From?
If your desired customer is a doctor , it stands to reason that it won’ t help
you much talking to a plumber . If you were aiming for teenagers, would
you talk to grandparents?
The first step in trying to learn from the market is having an opinion
about who your market actually is. I recommend thinking about a few
categories:
 
• The typical customer you envision if you get traction with your idea
• Your early adopter , i.e. the people who will take a chance on your product
before anyone else
• Critical partners for distribution, fulfillment, or other parts of your
business 
You might think you are creating a product for “everyone”, but that is not
an actionable or useful description in the early stages. Y ou need to get more
specific. Y our job is to think through the kinds of people who have the
problem you are interested in solving. Sometimes they have a particular job,
or a state of mind, live in a particular part of the world, or belong to a
certain age group. Standard demographics might be useful, or they might be
irrelevant. What are the commonalities across your customer base?
 
Here are some examples:
 

• A hospital management system has to think about the hospital
administrator who will buy their software and the actual hospital
workers who would use it
• An on-call veterinarian service needs to talk to pet owners
• An online marketplace for plumbers might consider plumbers on
the sell side, and home owners on the buy side  
You also want to think about your early adopters. Why do they matter?
Most new products fit alongside a “technology adoption curve,” as
illustrated below .
 
 
New founders tend to obsess about their mainstream customer (represented
in the chart as the early and late majority). However , by definition, the
mainstream is waiting for proof from early adopters before they try
something. If you cannot get early adopters, you cannot move on. Early
adopters are usually folks who feel a pain point acutely , or love to try new
products and services.
In our story of Koshi and Roberta, the scientists hypothesized that their
early adopter would be urban professionals in their mid to late twenties. For
the three customer examples we just gave, here are examples of early
adopters:
 
• Our hospital management system might target hospital chains still
stuck with an archaic vendor
• Our vet service might target busy 20-somethings in a major city
• Our online market for plumbers might target solo practices  on the
sell-side and first-time home owners on the buy-side
 

There is no prescription for how narrowly or broadly you should cast your
net for customer discovery interviews. However , the more focused you can
be, the easier it is to make sense of your evidence.
 
Special Note for B2B Pr oducts
If you are selling to the enterprise, you should also think about the dif ferent
kinds of participants in your sales process. In a classic enterprise sale, you
will often have a strategic buyer (who is excited about the change you can
bring), an economic buyer (who controls the purse), a technical buyer (who
might have approval/blocker rights), and then the actual users of your
product. Can you identify your champion? Can you identify who might be a
saboteur?
For B2B companies, Steve Blank also recommends that you start by
talking to mid-level managers rather than the C-suite. It can be easier to get
their time, it is often easier to get repeat conversations, and, most
importantly , it will allow you to get better educated before you go up the
chain.

 

What Do Y ou W ant to Learn?
Go into every customer interview with a prepared list of questions. This list,
which we refer to as an interview guide, will keep you or ganized. Y ou will
appear m ore professional , and it will ensure that you get to your most
important questions early .
 
How do you know your most important questions?
I like to begin by understanding my most important, and most risky ,
assumptions. Those tend to be the areas where you need to gather insights
most ur gently . You can uncover your assumptions in a myriad of ways. Y ou
can use Alex Osterwalder ’s business model canvas or Ash Maurya’ s lean
canvas. Personally , I ask these questions ( see the Appendix for a worksheet
and tips ):
 
• My target customer will be?
• The problem my customer wants to solve is?
• My customer ’s need can be solved with?
• Why can’t my customer solve this today?
• The measurable outcome my customer wants to achieve is?
• My primary customer acquisition tactic will be?
• My earliest adopter will be?
• I will make money (revenue) by?
• My primary competition will be?
• I will beat my competitors primarily because of?

• My biggest risk to financial viability is?
• My biggest technical or engineering risk is?
• What assumptions do we have that, if proven wrong, would cause
this business to fail? (Tip: include market size in this list ) 
You should be able to look at this list and spot the assumptions that are both
highly important and fairly uncertain. Be honest. Y ou want to focus on the
most important issues.
 
In the case of our pillow entrepreneurs, they chose six initial risks which
drove their research approach and first set of questions. T o give another
scenario, in the last chapter we shared the example of an on-call
veterinarian service. The founders might identify a set of risks:
 
1. Pet owners are frustrated having to go to a vet and would rather
have someone come to them
2. Customers are willing to pay a big premium to have a vet show up
at their door
3. We think busy urbanite pet owners will be our early adopters
4. We think people currently discover their vets either through word of
mouth or online searches
5. We can af fordably acquire our customers through targeted Google
search ads
6. We can recruit enough vets across the country to make this a big
enough business
7. With travel baked in, our vets can see enough people in a day to
be financially viable  
Not every assumption can be tested ef fectively through qualitative research,
but in this case, our founders can probably get some insights on risks 1, 3,
4, and 6 just by talking to people. Risks 1, 3 and 4 would be focused on pet
owners, while #6 would be focused on vets.
 
Get Stories, Not Speculation
When you are contemplating your questions, be careful with speculation.
Humans are spectacularly bad at predicting their future behavior . It is

tempting to say , “Would you like this idea?” or “W ould you buy this
product?” Unfortunately , you really have to treat those answers with a great
deal of skepticism.
It is more ef fective to ask your interview subject to share a story about
the past. For example, when our fictional scientists Koshi and Roberta
created their interview plan, the questions were focused on getting the
interviewee to tell a story about their last pillow buying experience.
 
Keeping with our second example of an on-call vet service, the team
might have a loose interview plan that looks like the following:
 
• Warm up: concise intro on the purpose of the conversation
• Warm up: basic questions about person and pet (name, age,
picture)
• Who is your current vet? Can you tell me about how you found and
chose him/her?
• Please describe the last time you had to take your pet to the vet for
a checkup
• Walk me through the process of scheduling a time to visit the vet.
• What was frustrating about that experience?
• What did you like about that experience?
• Have you ever had an emergency visit to a vet? if yes, can you
describe that experience for me?
• Have you ever thought about changing vets? why / why not?  
Ask Open-Ended Questions
Your goal is to talk little and get the other person sharing openly . To that
end, it is imperative that you structure open-ended questions, or at
minimum follow up yes/no questions with an open-ended question that gets
them talking.
One tip is to try to ask questions that start with words like who, what, why
and how . Avoid questions that start with is, ar e, would, and do you . But
remember , if you do get a yes/no answer to a question, you can always
follow up in a way that gets them talking.

An interesting open-ended question, which Steve Blank likes to use to
conclude his interviews, is: “What should I have asked you that I didn’ t?”
 
Testing for Price
Two of the hardest questions to answer through qualitative research are: will
people pay?  and how much will they pay?  Speculative answers on this topic
are extremely suspect. You can learn a lot, however , by asking questions
like:
 
• How much do you currently spend to address this problem?
• What budget do you have allocated to this, and who controls it?
• How much would you pay to make this problem go away? (this can
lead to interesting answers as long as you don’t take answers too
literally)
 
My recommendation is to set up a situation where the subject thinks they
are actually buying something, even if they know the thing doesn’ t exist
yet. Kickstarter and other crowdfunding platforms are used by a lot of
teams to test pre-order demand.
For expensive corporate products, you can also try to get customers to
buy in advance or sign a non-binding letter of intent to buy . The key thing
to remember is that people don’ t honestly think about willingness to pay
unless they feel like it is a real transaction.
 
Getting Feedback on a Pr ototype
Sometimes you will want to get reactions to a product solution. Y ou can
learn a lot by putting mockups or prototypes in front of people, but, as with
all speculation, you should interpret reactions with a degree of skepticism.
If you show your interview subject a proposed solution, you need to
separate this step from your questions about their behavior . Ask your
questions about behavior and challenges first, so that the discussion about

product features does not poison or take over the conversation. People do
love talking features!
 
The Magic W and Question
Some people like to ask, “if you could wave a magic wand and have this
product do whatever you want, what would it do?” Personally , I avoid
questions like this because customers are too constrained by their current
reality to design ef fective solutions. It is the customer ’s job to explain their
behavior , goals, and challenges. It is the product designer ’s job to come up
with the best solution.
There is one variation to the magic wand question that I do like, however ,
because it focuses on problems and not solutions: “If you could wave a
magic wand and solve any pr oblem, what would you want to solve?”  I
suspect, however , that you will find many people struggle with such an
open question.
 
Design “Pass/Fail” T ests
Customer discovery is made up of a lot of qualitative research, but it helps
to take a quantitative mindset. Set goals for key questions and track results.
For example, halfway through their initial research, our scientists Koshi and
Roberta already knew stats like:
• 24% of shoppers knew what they wanted when they walked in
• 45% of shoppers purchased a mid-priced or high-priced pillow
• 68% of the shoppers we spoke to indicated that better sleep was a
major driver of their choice
 
Even better would have been if they had set tar gets ahead of time. For
example, they might have set the following goals:
• Because we are a new brand, we are hoping that most shoppers
are undecided. W e want to see that 40% or fewer shoppers
already know what they want when they walk in

• Because our pillow is expensive, we want to see that at least 40%
of the shoppers buy mid or high-end models
• Because we believe that sleep quality is a major dif ferentiator for
our product, we want over 60% of shoppers to indicate that this is
a major factor in their decision making process
 
The numerical tar get you choose can be an educated guess. Y ou do not
need to stress over picking the perfect number . It is more important that you
set a goal and really track what is happening. Setting a tar get forces you
carefully think through what you are hoping to see, and makes decisions
and judgment calls a bit easier as you review your data.
 
A Guide, Not a Script
An interview guide is not a script. Y ou do not need to read from it like an
automaton. Y ou should feel free to veer of f of it if the conversation brings
up something interesting and new . It will likely evolve as you learn from
the market and unearth new questions. But always plan, prioritize and prep
your questions before any session.
 
Observation Can Be As Powerful As Questions
Sometimes the best thing you can do is sit back and watch someone’ s
behavior . You might watch their purchase process, or examine how they go
about solving  a particular problem. As you think about what you want to
learn, also think through how you might gather data through observation
rather than direct interviews.
In our story of Koshi and Roberta, the two got some of their most
valuable insights by going to linen stores and watching potential customers
struggle to buy a pillow . They observed behavior and only then jumped in
to ask questions.
This technique cannot always be used. For example, when my team was
trying to validate a weight loss product idea, it did not feel practical to
watch people go about their diet. Instead we did interviews and then put a

group of customers through a two-week concier ge experiment ( see
Glossary ) where we manually acted out the diet experience. But, where
possible, observing uninfluenced behavior can lead to great insights.

 

How Do Y ou Find Y our Interview
Subjects?
Entrepreneurs new to customer development are often intimidated at the
thought of approaching complete strangers. It might surprise you to hear
that people are often very willing to help out. This is especially true if you
are working on a topic that interests them and you approach them nicely
and professionally . There are three general rules to keep in mind when
recruiting candidates to speak with:
 
1. Try to get one degree of separation away (don’ t interview your mom, your
uncle, or your best friends)
2. Be creative  (and don’ t expect people to come to you)
3. Fish where the fish are (and not wher e they ar e not)  
Get Cr eative
One aspiring entrepreneur wanted to tar get mothers of young children. She
had heard stories about talking to people in a cof fee shop, but felt like it was
too unfocused. So she tried hanging around school pickup zones, but the
moms were too busy and refused to speak to her . Next, she tried the
playground, where she figured moms would be bored watching their kids
play. This worked reasonably well, but she was only able to get a few
minutes of anyone’ s time. So instead, she started or ganizing evening events
for moms at a local spa where she bought them pedicures and wine. The

time of day worked because the moms could leave the kids at home with
their partner . The attendees had a great time and were happy to talk while
they were getting their nails done.
 
Find the Moment of Pain
If you can connect with people at the moment of their theoretical pain, it
can be very illuminating. My colleague Alexa Roman was working with an
automotive company and they had a concept tied to the experience of
getting gas. So Alexa and team visited a series of gas stations. They
watched consumers go through the process of buying gas. Then they
approached them and asked questions. By thinking about the moment of
pain they wanted to address, they knew exactly where to find their
consumers and they were able to gather valuable observational research.
 
Make Referrals Happen
Use referrals to your advantage. Let’ s say you want to talk to doctors. They
are busy and have strong gatekeepers. I bet you know how to get to at least
one doctor , however . That doctor will know other doctors. Even if your
doctor happens to be a close friend and thus breaks the “more than one
degree of separation” guideline, she can still give you advice on when
might be a good time to talk to a doctor . She can also connect you with
other doctors.
You should use referrals as much as possible. Set a goal of walking out
of every interview with 2 or 3 new candidates.  When you end an
interview , ask the person if they know others who face the problem you are
trying to solve. If they feel like you have respected their time, they will
often be willing to introduce you to others.
 
Confer ences & Meetups
Conferences and meetups can be an amazing recruiting ground, because
they bring a group of people with shared interests into one place. You just

need to be respectful of people’ s time. I have found that it is extremely
effective to ask people for their time, but for later, after the conference or
meetup. Get their business card, let them get back to networking, and then
have an in-depth conversation when it fits their schedule. Immediately after
the conference while their memories are still fresh, send them a short email
that reminds them where you met, and give your ask for a conversation.
This works as ef fectively for in-demand panel speakers as it does for other
attendees.
Meetups are usually inexpensive, but conference tickets can be pricey . If
you are on a budget, you can “hack” expensive conferences by intercepting
people outside of the building, or , if you can get access to the attendee or
speaker lists ahead of time, contacting people directly and meeting them
near the event.
Meetup.com has decent search tools to discover relevant events in your
area, and a few good Google search queries can usually get you to a short
list of conferences that fit your needs.
 
Enterprise Customers
Finding interviewees can be harder when you are focused on an enterprise
customer . You need laser -like tar geting. In addition to conferences,
LinkedIn can be extremely useful. If you have hypotheses on the titles of
the people you are seeking, run searches on LinkedIn. You might be able to
get to them through a referral over LinkedIn, or you might need to cold call
them through their company’ s main phone number . You then have to decide
on you r approach method. You can either ask for advice (where you make it
clear that you are not selling anything), or you can go in as if you were
selling something specific.
 
Advice vs Selling
Asking for advice should be your default method early in your customer
discovery process. Y ou will have better luck gaining access. People like

being asked (it makes them feel important). Steve Blank used to call people
up and say something like, “My name is Steve and [dropped name] told me
you were one of the smartest people in the industry and you had really
valuable advice to of fer. I’m not trying to sell you anything, but was hoping
to get 20 minutes of your time.”
Another ef fective spin on “asking for advice” is to create a blog focused
on your problem space, and ask people if you can interview them for an
article.
When do you approach someone as if you were selling a product? This
method is useful if you are past initial learning and want to test your
assumptions around customer acquisition and messaging. Just don’ t jump
into sales mode too early .
 
Benefitting fr om Gatekeepers
If LinkedIn isn’ t helping you and you need to reach high up in an
organization, another approach is to call the CEO’ s office. Y our goal is not
to talk to the CEO but actually their executive assistant. His job is to be an
effective gatekeeper , so if you explain, “I’m looking to talk to the person
who handles X”, they will often connect you to the right person (especially
if you are pleasant and professional — notice the trend on that one?). The
added advantage of this method is if you end up leaving a voice mail for
your intended contact, you can say “Jim from [CEO’ s name]’ s office gave
me your name”. Dropping the boss’ name tends to improve response rates.
Another approach is to send a tar geted email into an or ganization with a
very short email that asks for an introduction to the right person to speak to.
You can make guesses as to email addresses based on LinkedIn queries. For
this tactic to work, you must keep your emails extremely concise.
 
Students and Resear chers
While people are willing to grant time to polite people who ask for advice,
you have an extra advantage if you are a student or academic researcher . In

other words, if you are a student or researcher , say so. As an extra incentive,
you might also of fer to share the results of your research with your
interview subjects.
 
You Might Be Surprised
Another colleague of mine, Jonathan Irwin, was working with a Fortune 50
company . The client team wanted to interview a special kind of oil platform
engineer , of which there were less than 20 in the world! T o access these
people required security clearance and safety training. W e challenged the
team to find a way , expecting that they would have to rely on video
conferencing or phone calls. However , the team started researching this
speciality profession through Google and discovered that there was an
onshore training facility just an hour away . The moral of the story is that it
often isn’ t as hard as you think.
 
No Fish in the Sea
When I say fish where the fish are, it is really important to remember the
flip side to that statement: don’t fish wher e the fish ar e not . If a method isn’ t
working, try something new .
We were doing a project with a major magazine testing out new product
ideas. Our tar get was busy women, and we knew that the readership
correlated closely with shoppers of The Container Store (a retail store). So
we parked out front of a store and intercepted folks as they came in and out.
People were willing to speak for a few minutes, but many were in a bit too
much of a rush. Then one of our teammates discovered a sample sale
happening around the corner . There were probably 200 bored women
waiting in line, most of whom were happy to talk to us to pass the time.
(Note: finding bor ed people stuck in line is a common r ecruiting hack.)
Still, we didn’ t feel like we were tar geting quite as narrowly as we
wanted (busy , working women) or as geographically broadly (we didn’ t
want to just talk to New Y orkers). So we turned to the magazine’ s social

media presence. W e created a short online survey to help us qualify
responses, and the magazine posted a link to their T witter and Facebook
pages with a catchy sentence. W e had hundreds of women fill out the
survey , and then we picked our top thirty candidates and scheduled calls.
 
Online Forms & Landing Pages
In a similar vein, one ef fective tactic is to create an online form or landing
page and build up a list of people to contact.
Below is an example of a landing page. Our team was testing a product
idea for better home or ganization.
 
 
This landing page test actually consisted of a three-step funnel with a call to
action, a price choice, and then a request for an email address. W e tracked
the conversion metrics carefully and used the emails to schedule interviews.
Caveat: driving traf fic is never a trivial process. If you have budget,
Google or Facebook ads can work. Otherwise, you can try to  generate some
word of mouth on social media or through bloggers.
 
Conclusion
Hopefully what you are picking up through these examples is that there is
no single way to get to people. It takes some creativity and hustle, but it
isn’t as hard as you might think. Trust me,  people will not think you are
rude if you carry yourself well and act professionally .

 
Check Out the Appendix for Examples
The Appendix has more tips and examples for cold email and voice mail
approaches.

 

How to Ensure an Ef fective Session?
I recommend the following guidelines for running a productive interview
session.
 
Do Y our Interviews In Person
The quality of your learning can vary a lot depending on your
communication method. Talking in person is by far the best approach. Y ou
can read body language and build rapport much easier . Remember that a
huge percentage of human communication is non-verbal, so why blind your
senses if you don’ t have to?
The next best approach is video conferencing, because at least you can
still read someone’ s facial expressions.
Phone calls should be your method of last resort (sometimes there is no
choice), and I would entirely avoid using text-based mediums like email or
chat.
 
Talk to One Person at a T ime
I believe in talking to one person at a time. It is useful to have a second
person on your side quietly taking notes. I strongly recommend avoiding
focus groups for two reasons: 1. you want to avoid group think; 2. you will
really struggle to focus on one person’ s stories, and drill into areas of
interest, when you are juggling multiple people.

 
Adding a Note T aker
Bringing a note taker will allow you to stay in the moment without
worrying about getting every bit down on paper . You can stay focused on
the topics, the body language, and where to take the conversation.
If you have to take your own notes, that’ s not the end of the world. It can
sometimes make for a more intimate conversation. Just remember to write
up your notes right after the session or you will lose a lot of detail and color
that you weren’ t able to write down.
You can also ask the interview subject if you can record them, and many
people are willing. The risk is that a recorder can inhibit the conversation,
but most people for get that they are being recorded once the discussion is
flowing. I highly r ecommend  that you play back the audio and write up your
notes soon after the session, both because writing up notes will reinforce
what you learned in your own mind, and also because written notes are
easier and faster for both you and your teammates to scan. I’ve found that
once audio or video is more than a couple weeks old, somehow they never
get touched again.
 
Start W ith a W arm Up & Keep It Human
When you kick things of f, concisely explain why you are there, and thank
them for the time. Launch into things with one or two easy warm up
questions. For example, if you are talking to a consumer , you might ask
where they are from and what they do for a living. If you are talking to
enterprise, you might ask how long they have been with their company . You
don’t want to spend a lot of time on this stuf f, but it does get the ball
rolling.
Have a written or printed list of questions, but don’ t rigidly read from
your list. Be in the moment. Make the interview subject feel like you are
really listening to them.
 

Disarm Y our Own Biases
Human beings have an amazing ability to hear what they want to hear (this
is called “confirmation bias”). Go into each session prepared to hear things
that you might not want to hear . Some entrepreneurs even take the mindset
that they are trying to kill their idea, rather than support it, just to set the bar
high and prevent themselves from leading the witness.
 
Get Them to T ell a Story
As I mentioned in the chapter “What Do Y ou W ant to Learn,” humans are
terrible at predicting their own behavior . If you ask any speculative
questions, be prepared to listen with a healthy dose of skepticism. I far
prefer to get people telling stories about how they experienced a problem
area in the past. In particular , try to find out if they have tried to solve the
problem. What triggered their search for a solution? How did they look for
a solution? What did they think the solution would do, before they tried it?
How did that particular solution work out? And if they are struggling to
remember specifics, help them set the scene of their story: what part of the
year or time of day? W ere you with anyone?
As they are telling their story , follow up with questions about their
emotional state. Y ou might get some historical revisionism, but what you
hear can be very illuminating.
The researchers at Meetup.com , who borrow from Clayton Christensen’ s
Jobs T o Be Done  framework, use an interesting tactic to help their subjects
get in story mode. When they are asking someone to take them through a
purchase experience, from first thought through purchase and then actual
product usage, they say: “Imagine you are filming the documentary of your
life. Pretend you are filming the scene, watching the actor playing you. At
this moment, what is their emotion, what are they feeling?”
 
Look for Solution Hacks

One of the best indicators that the market needs a new or better solution is
that some people are not just accepting their frustration with a particular
problem, but they are actively trying to solve it. Maybe they have tried a
few dif ferent solutions. Maybe they have tried hacking together their own
solution. These stories are a great indicator of market need.
 
Understanding Priority
For someone to try a new product, their pain usually needs to be acute
enough that they will change their behavior , take a risk, and even pay for it.
If you feel like you are seeing good evidence that someone actually has a
problem, it is worth asking where it ranks in their list of things to solve. Is it
their #1 pain, or something too low in priority to warrant attention and
budget?
 
Listen, Don’t T alk
Try to shut up as much as possible. T ry to keep your questions short and
unbiased (i.e. don’ t embed the answer you want to hear into the question).
Don’ t rush to fill the “space” when the customer pauses, because they
might be thinking or have more to say . Make sure you are learning, not
selling! Or , at least make sure you are not in “sales” mode until the point
when you actually do try to close a sale as part of an experiment.
 
Follow Y our Nose and Drill Down
Anytime something tweaks your antenna, drill down with follow up
questions. Don’ t be afraid to ask for clarifications and the “why” behind the
“what.” Y ou can even try drilling into multiple layers of “why” (run an
Internet search for “Five Whys” for more info), as long as the interviewee
doesn’ t start getting annoyed.
 
Parr ot Back or Misrepresent to Confirm

For important topics, try repeating back what the person said. Y ou can
occasionally get one of two interesting results. They might correct you
because you’ve misinterpreted what they said. Or , by hearing their own
thoughts, they’ll actually realize that their true opinion is slightly dif ferent,
and they will give you a second, more sophisticated answer .
Another approach is to purposefully misrepresent what they just said
when you parrot it back, and then see if they correct you. But use this
technique sparingly , if at all.
 
Do a Dry Run
If you are a beginner at customer discovery , do a dry run with a friend or
colleague. See how your questions feel coming out of your mouth. Get a
sense of what it is like to listen carefully and occasionally improvise.
 
Getting Feedback on Y our Pr oduct
If you want to get feedback on your product ideas, whether you show
simple mockups or a more polished demo, there are a few important tips to
keep in mind:
As I mentioned before, separate the storytelling part of your session from
the feedback part. People love to brainstorm on features and solutions, and
this will end up influencing the stories they might tell. So dig into their
stories first, and gather any feedback second.
Second, disarm their politeness training. People are trained not to call
your baby ugly . You need to make them feel safe to do this. Ask them up-
front to be brutally honest, and explain that it is the very best way for them
to help you. If they seem confused, explain that the worst thing that could
happen is to build something people didn’ t care about.
Finally , keep in mind that it is incredibly easy for people to tell you that
they like your product. Don’ t trust this feedback. Instead, you need to put
people through an actual experience and watch their behavior or try to get
them to open their wallet.

There is no right answer on how polished your early mockups need to be.
If you are in the fashion space, you need to have a high degree of visual
polish as table stakes. If you are creating a solution for engineers, you
probably need much less. Just don’ t wait for perfection, because initial
product versions rarely get everything right. Y ou need to spot your errors
sooner rather than later .

 

How Do Y ou Make Sense of What
You Learn?
Your goal is not to learn for learning’ s sake. Y our goal is to make better
decisions that increase the odds of success. So how do you translate your
observations into decisions?
 
The first step is to make sense of your patterns.
 
Take Good Notes
To find your patterns, first you need to track the data. This is easy if you
bring a good notetaker to the interview , but otherwise, make sure that you
write up your notes as soon after your conversation as possible. Make them
available to the entire team with Google Docs or the equivalent.
 
At the start of every entry , note the following information:
• Name of interview subject
• Date and time
• Name of interviewer
• In person or video conference
• Photo (if you have one)
 
Then at the start of your notes, include basic descriptive information of the
interview subject.  

Quantitative Measur es
If you are setting specific metric goals for your interviews, you might set up
a shared spreadsheet that essentially acts as a running scorecard for how
you are doing and how you are tracking to tar gets.
 
EXAMPLE
Let’s imagine that you have invented a new air purifier that triples the
growth speed of greenhouse plants. Now you plan to talk to 20 farmers, and
you have a few core questions:
 
• Will their business actually benefit from increased growth speed?
You are assuming that increased volume will help rather than hurt.
You plan to talk to growers of dif ferent crops with the goal of
finding crops where 60% or more of farmers want increased
volume.
• Are farmers spending any money today on growth accelerator
solutions? Y our qualitative research will drill into what and why , but
your metrics goal says that you hope at least 50% of the market is
already spending at least some money .
• Do they have the facilities to support your purifier? In this case,
you need your purifier to be both in a specific location, but also
have access to an electrical outlet. Y ou are hoping that 70% of the
farmers have an outlet 20 feet or closer to your spot.  
Here is the kind of spreadsheet that you and your team might track:
 
 

As Samantha advised Koshi and Roberta in the fictional story , turning your
observations into quantifiable metrics is both useful and tricky . Our brains
like to influence our thinking with cognitive biases, especially filtering
results for what we want to hear . Calculating actual metrics helps fight
against that dynamic.
At the same time, you have to beware a dif ferent kind of bias: our desire
to turn statistics into facts. Hopefully you are getting enough data points
that you can trust the patterns, but do not confuse this with statistical
significance or take your results too literally . My advice is to calculate
metrics, but remain skeptical of them, don’ t obsess over any one particular
metric, and continue to question what is behind your numbers.
 
Dump and Sort Exer cise
Bring your team together and arm them with sticky notes and sharpies. Give
everyone 10 minutes to jot down as many patterns and observations as they
saw during their interviews. Put all the sticky notes on a wall and have
someone sort them into groups. As a team, discuss the patterns, and then re-
review your assumptions or business canvas and see what might need to
change or require greater investigation.
 
Look for Patterns and Apply Judgement
Customer development interviews will not give you statistically significant
data, but they will give you insights based on patterns. They can be very
tricky to interpret, because what people say is not always what they do. You
don’t want to react too strongly to any single person’ s comments. Y ou don’ t
want to take things too literally . But neither do you want to be bogged down
trying to talk to thousands of people before you can make a decision.
You need to use your judgement to read between the lines, to read body
language, to try to understand context and agendas, and to filter out biases
based on the types of people in your pool of interviewees. But it is exactly

the ability to use human judgement based on human connections that make
interviews so much more useful than surveys.
Ultimately , you are better of f moving fast and making decisions from
credible patterns than dithering about in analysis paralysis.
 
Don’t Abdicate Y our Role As Pr oduct Designer
It is not the job of the customer to d esign your product. It is yours. As you
are gathering information and making decisions, act like a intelligent filter ,
not an order -taker .
 
Expect False Positives
While all entrepreneurs get their fair share of naysayers and skeptics, you
have to be wary of the opposite problem in customer development
interviews. People will want to be helpful and nice, and your brain will
want to hear nice things. As you are weighing what you have learned, just
keep this in mind.
 
The T ruth Cur ve
I am a big believer in qualitative research. I think a good product team
should build a regular cadence of talking to relevant people into their
process. However , you don’ t want your only source of learning to be talking
to people.
You don’ t really know the absolute truth about your product until it is live
and people are truly using it and you are making real money from it. But
that does not mean you should jump straight to a live product, because that
is a very expensive and slow way to iterate your new business.
Get into the market early and begin testing your assumptions right away ,
starting with conversations and proceeding from there. It will dramatically
increase the odds that you will create a product that customers actually
want. As you build confidence, test with increasing levels of fidelity . I think
of it like peeling an onion in reverse.

I created the accompanying chart to demonstrate the levels of
believability for dif ferent kinds of experiments.
 
 
Talking to people is powerful. It tends to give you your biggest leaps of
insight, but, as I keep on repeating, what people say is not what they do.
You might show people mockups and that might give you another level of
learning and feedback, but reactions still need to be taken with skepticism.
Concier ge and “W izard of Oz” experiments, where you fake the product
through manual labor ( see Glossary ) will give you stronger evidence,
because you put people through an experience and watch their actions. The
next layers of the onion are to test with a truly functional “Minimum V iable
Product” ( see Glossary ) and beyond.
The point I want to make is that all of the steps on the curve can be very
useful to help you learn, make smarter decisions, and reduce risk, but you
need to use your head, and apply judgement to everything you are learning.
 
How many people to talk to?
There is no pat answer to this question. A consumer business should talk to
an order of magnitude more people than a business that sells to enterprise.
If you are in the consumer space and haven’ t spoken to at least 50 to 100
people, you probably have not done enough research. In his I-Corps course,

Steve Blank requires his teams, many of which are B2B, to talk to at least
100 people over 7 weeks.
I advise that you never stop talking to potential customers, but you will
probably evolve what you seek to learn. If you see the same patterns over
and over again, you might change things up and examine dif ferent
assumptions and risks. For example, if you feel like you have a firm
understanding of your customer ’s true need, you might move on to
exploring how they learn about and purchase solutions in your product
category today .
And don’ t forget that observing your customers can be as powerful as
directly talking to them.
 
Lead with V ision
Customer Development and lean startup techniques are some of the most
powerful ways to increase your odds of success, but they are not a
replacement for vision. You need to start with vision. Y ou need to start with
how you want to improve the world and add value to people’ s lives. The
techniques we’ve discussed in this book are among a body of techniques
that let you reality check your vision, and optimize the path you will take to
achieve your vision.

 

Conclusion
Thoughtful qualitative research is a critical tool for any entrepreneur .
Hopefully this book has given you some new strategies for how to put it to
work for your needs.
 
Creating a new business is tremendously challenging. The ways you can
fail are numerous.
 
• You have to get the customer and market right
• You have to get the revenue model right
• You have to get the cost structure right
• You have to get customer acquisition right
• You have to get the product right
• You have to get the team right
• You have to get your timing right
 
Screw up any one of those and you are toast. There is a reason why
entrepreneurship is not for the faint of heart.
 
But we’r e not her e to be faint of heart. W e are her e to change the world.
 
Dream big. Be passionate. Just be ruthless with your ideas and assumptions.
Customer discovery and lean experimentation can truly help you chart a
better path and find success faster and with more capital ef ficiency .
 
Don’ t forget that as your business grows and changes, so too will your
customer base. Keep on reality-checking your hypotheses. Keep on talking
to humans.

PART THREE
Appendix

Cold Approach Examples
When you are trying to reach someone you do not know , there are a few
things to remember:
 
1. Keep things concise
2. Keep things convenient (meet near their of fice, etc)
3. Name drop when you can
4. Follow up if you don’ t hear an answer , but don’ t be annoying
5. If you are leaving a voice mail, practice it first ( you might think it sounds
practiced, but to others, it will sound mor e professional )
 
 
Example Email 1
To: john.smith@mayflower .com
From: me@me.com
John,
I received your name from James Smith. He said that you had a lot of
expertise in an area I am researching and recommended that we speak.
I’m trying to study how companies are handling their expense report
management workflows and the frustrations they are experiencing. I would
be happy to share my research conclusions with you.
Would you have 30 minutes to spare next week when I could buy you a cup
of cof fee and ask you a few questions?
Many thanks for your time and I look forward to hearing from you,
Jane Doe
Example Email 2
To: john.smith@mayflower .com

From: me@me.com
John,
I have been working on some new solutions in the area of expense report
management, and I was told that you have a lot of expertise in this area.
We started this journey because of personal frustration, and we’re trying to
figure out how to make expense reporting much less painful. Would you
have 30 minutes to give us some advice, and share some of your
experiences in this domain?
I assure you that I’m not selling anything. I would be happy to come by
your of fice or arrange a quick video conference, at your preference.
Many thanks,
Jane Doe
 
Example V oice Mail Message
“Hello, my name is Jane Doe. I was referred to you by James Smith, who
said I would benefit from your advice. I am currently researching how
companies are handling their expense management workflows. I understand
you have a lot of expertise in this area. I was hoping to take just 30 minutes
of your time to ask you a few questions. I’m not selling anything and I
would be happy to share my research conclusions with you. You can reach
me at 555-555-5555. Again, this is Jane Doe, at 555-555-5555, and thank
you for your time.”
 
Final Note
Cold calling is never anyone’ s favorite thing to do, but it isn’ t nearly as
painful as you imagine. Y ou have nothing to lose and everything to gain. So
give yourself a determined smile in the mirror , and go get them!

 

Business Assumptions Exercise
I am agnostic about the framework  you choose to use to map out your
business assumptions. Alexander Osterwalder ’s business model canvas and
Ash Maurya’ s lean canvas are both powerful tools. I also often find myself
using this simple set of questions to lay out a belief system around an idea:
 
Try to make your assumptions as concise and specific as possible. Y ou want
to be able to run an experiment against it to see if it is true.
 
My target customer will be?
(Tip: how would you describe your primary tar get customer)
 
The pr oblem my customer wants to solve is?
(Tip: what does your customer struggle with or what need do they want to fulfill)
 
My customer ’s need can be solved with?
(Tip: give a very concise description / elevator pitch of your product)
 
Why can’t my customer solve this today?
(Tip: what are the obstacles that have prevented my customer from solving this already)
 
The measurable outcome my customer wants to achieve is?
(Tip: what measurable change in your your customer ’s life makes them love your product)
 
My primary customer acquisition tactic will be?
(Tip: you will likely have multiple marketing channels, but there is often one method, at most two,
that dominates your customer acquisition — what is your current guess)
 
My earliest adopter will be?
(Tip: remember that you can’ t get to the mainstream customer without getting early adopters first)
 
I will make money (r evenue) by?
(Tip: don’ t list all the ideas for making money , but pick your primary one)
 

My primary competition will be?
(Tip: think about both direct and indirect competition)
 
I will beat my competitors primarily because of?
(Tip: what truly dif ferentiates you from the competition?)
 
My biggest risk to financial viability is?
(Tip: what could prevent you from getting to breakeven? is there something baked into your revenue
or cost model that you can de-risk?)
 
My biggest technical or engineering risk is?
(Tip: is there a major technical challenge that might hinder building your product?)
 
 
And then answer the following open-ended question. Be creative and really
examine your points of failure.
What assumptions do we have that, if proven wrong, would cause this
business to fail?
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
 
 
After you have looked at your business holistically and also answered the
broad final question, mark the assumptions that would have a lar ge impact
on your business and feel highly uncertain.

 
Now you know your priorities for customer discovery and the experiments
you need to run!
 
You can get a pdf worksheet for this exercise on
www .talkingtohumans.com.

 

Teaching Exercise #1: Mock
Interviews
If you are using this book to try to teach customer discovery/development,
there is nothing like real-world practice to make learning stick.
 
Before you send your class out into the world to conduct their own
interviews, however , you might try a compact exercise like the following:
 
Tools
All participants should have pen and paper
 
Preface: Choose a T opic
Everyone in the class will interview each other based on the same topic,
which means it needs to be something most people can relate two. There are
two angles you might take:
 
1. Something that helps the interviewer dig up past behavior .
For example, “T ell me about the last thing you purchased over $100.” Have
the interview subject explain what they bought, what the purchase process
was like from desire to actual ownership, how they made their purchase
decision, etc.
 
2. Something that helps the interviewer unlock deeper motivations and
desires. For example, “T ell me about your dream car .” Prompt your students
not just to get people to describe the car , but to dig into the reasons behind
the choice ; they can also prompt for whether the interview subject has ever
experienced driving the car .
 
Exer cise
Step 1: Intr o, 5 minutes

Explain the exercise, the topic that the students will use, and give a few
specific suggestions for questions they might ask. Example questions for
the dream car: when did you fall in love with the car and why? of the
reasons you shar ed, why ar e these the most important to you? how have you
imagined using the car? etc
 
Step 2: Interview Plan, 2 minutes
Give your class the topic and let them spend 5 minutes on their own. They
should write down no more than 6 questions to ask.
 
Step 3: Pair Interviews, 5 - 7 minutes each
Pair up your students. One will begin as the interviewer , and their opposite
will be interviewed. Give them 7 minutes, and then switch the roles,
keeping the pairs unchanged. The new interviewer gets 7 minutes.
 
The person doing the interviewing should also take notes, which will give
them some exposure to doing an interview solo as opposed to bringing a
note-taker to help (which is what most people prefer to do when possible).
 
Step 4: Observations and Questions, 5-10 minutes
Ask the room to share observations, challenges, lessons or questions on
what it was like to do a live interview .

 
 
Teaching Exercise #2: Mock
Approach
Dean Chang, the Associate VP of Entrepreneurship at the University of
Maryland, recommends a class exercise where one or more teams of
students takes on the role of cold calling an “expert.” The team has to do it
over and over until they get it right.
 
For this exercise, select  one team and have them come to the front of the
classroom. Their job is to “cold call” a selected member of the teaching
team. The teacher will pretend to be an expert in the team’ s target field. The
team needs to get the expert to take the call, and smoothly transition into
asking questions.
 
The job of the person playing the “expert” is to block the team’ s misguided
attempts to engage. When the team does something wrong, the expert
declines the interview request, or ends the conversation, or gives them a
gong. Then the team has to start over again.
 
Classic mistakes that should trigger the team starting over include long or
unclear introductions, pitching the product/technology too soon, implying
that the expert has problems and desperately needs help, and/or generally
making the expert feel uncomfortable with the line of questioning.
 
As Dean describes it, “W e let the other teams of fer critiques and suggest
plans of attack for winning over the expert and then the chosen team tries it
again. Eventually after being gonged several times in a row , they stop
making the same mistakes and start to conver ge on a good elevator pitch

that praises and disarms the expert and paves the way to entering into an
interview . Then we stop the exercise.”
 
The exercise will probably be humorous and painful at the same time, but
there is nothing like stumbling, or watching a team stumble, to realize why
best practices are best practices.

 

Screwing Up Customer Discovery
So how do people screw up customer discovery? Here are a few anti-
patterns:
 
1. You tr eat speculation as confirmation
Here are some question types that I don’ t like — and if you ask them, you
should heavily discount the answer: “would you use this?” “would you pay
for this?” “would you like this?”
I can’ t say that I never  ask these questions, but I always prefer behavioral
questions over speculation.
As contrast, here is a behavior -focused interaction: “T ell me about a time
when you bought airline tickets online.” “What did you enjoy about the
process? What frustrated you about the process?” “What dif ferent systems
or methods have you tried in the past to book tickets?”
 
2. You lead the witness
Leading the witness is putting the answer in the interviewee’ s mouth in the
way you ask the question. For example: “W e don’ t think most people really
want to book tickets online, but what do you think?” Examine both how
you phrase your questions and your tone of voice. Are you steering the
answer? Ask open-ended, neutral questions before you drill down: “what
was that experience of buying online tickets like?”
 
3. You just can’t stop talking
Some entrepreneurs can’ t help themselves — they are overflowing with
excitement and just have to pitch pitch pitch. There is nothing wrong with
trying to pre-sell your product — that is an interesting experiment unto
itself — but you should not mix this in with behavioral learning.
If you do try to pre-sell, don’ t just ask, “W ould you pay for this?” but
rather ask them to actually pay , and see what happens. Some people ask the

question, “How much would you pay for this?” but I do not. Instead, try
actually selling at dif ferent price points (albeit one at a time). I much prefer
having the potential customer experience something, rather than speculate
over something.
 
4. You only hear what you want to hear
I see some people go into interviews with strong beliefs about what they
like and dislike. When you debrief after their custdev conversation, it is
magical how everything they heard aligns perfectly with their opinions. Our
brains are amazing filters. Leave your agenda at the door before starting a
conversation. One way to solve this is to have two people for each
interview — one person to ask questions, and the other to take notes.
 
5. You tr eat a single conversation as ultimate truth
You’ve just spoken to a potential customer and they have really strong
opinions. One instinct is to jump to conclusions and rush to make changes.
Instead, you need to be patient. There is no definitive answer for how many
similar answers equals the truth. Look for patterns and use your judgement.
A clear , consistent pattern at even 5 or 10 people is a signal.
 
6. Fear of r ejection wins out
This is one of the biggest blockers to people doing qualitative research, in
my experience, because of fear of a stranger rejecting your advance or
rejecting your idea. Many excuses, such as “I don’ t know how to find
people to talk to,” are rooted in this fear . JFDI. Customer development isn’ t
just about street intercepts. Y ou can recruit people on Craigslist, Facebook
and LinkedIn groups, and good old fashioned networking.
 
7. You talk to anyone with a pulse
I see some teams taking a shotgun approach. Instead, define your
assumptions around who your customer will be and who your early adopter

will be. Y ou might even do a lightweight persona (see the book Lean UX
for examples). Zoom in on those people and try to validate or invalidate
your assumptions about your customers. It is ok to occasionally go outside
your tar get zone for learning, but don’ t boil the ocean. Focus, learn, and
pivot if necessary .
 
8. You wing the conversation
If you go into a conversation unprepared, it will be eviden t. Write up your
questions ahead of time and force-rank them based on the risks and
assumptions you are worried about.
To define your assumptions, you can answer the questions in the business
assumptions exercise (previous section), or do a business model canvas or a
lean canvas. Y our exact method doesn’ t matter as much as the act of
prioritizing your risk areas.
During your actual interview , do not literally read your questions from a
piece of paper , but rather keep things conversational (remember , you are
getting the subject to tell you stories). If you uncover something interesting,
follow your nose and don’ t be afraid to diver ge from your initial priorities.
 
9. You try to learn everything in one sitting
Rather than trying to go as broad as possible in every conversation, you are
actually better of f zooming in on a few areas which are critical to your
business. If you have a huge range of questions, do more interviews and
split the questions.
 
10. Only the designer does qualitative r esear ch
It is ok to divide and conquer most of the time, but everyone on the team
should be forced to get out and talk to real people. Note: you will probably
have to coach newcomers on #5’ s point about not jumping to conclusions.
 

11. You did customer development your first week, but haven’t
felt a need to do it since
It is always sad to see product teams start things of f with customer
development, and then completely stop once they get going. It is perfectly
fine to let customer discovery work ebb and flow . If your learning curve
flattens, it can make sense to press pause or change up your approach.
However , you want to build a regular qualitative cadence into your product
process. It will provide a necessary complement to your quantitative
metrics, because it will help you understand the reasons why things are
happening.
 
12. Y ou ask the customer to design your pr oduct for you
There’ s a famous line attributed to Henry Ford, “If I had asked people what
they wanted, they would have said faster horses.” Remember , it is not the
customer ’s job to design the solution. It is your job. It is the customer ’s job
to tell you if your solution sucks. Get feedback, yes. Remember that the
further away you are from a working product, the more you have to filter
what you hear through your judgement and vision.
 
Disclaimer
As with all tips on lean and agile, there are always places and times to break
the rules and do what is right for your context, and your business.

Glossary
Concierge and “W izard of Oz” Experiments
A concier ge experiment is where you manually act out your product. An
example in Eric Ries’ book The Lean Startup  shows an entrepreneur
serving as a personal shopper for people before trying to design an
automated solution. When my colleagues were testing a diet plan service,
we did not want to rush to software before testing our assumptions. Instead,
we interviewed participants about their food preferences, manually created
meal plans which were emailed to them over two weeks, and interviewed
them at various points in the process. At the end of the two weeks, we asked
them to pay a set amount to continue, and tracked the conversion rate.
A “W izard of Oz” experiment is similar , with the dif ference being that
the manual work is hidden from the customer . For example, another set of
colleagues tested an idea for a smart task management system for married
couples. The twenty couples participating in the test thought that they were
interacting with a computer system, but in reality they were emailing in to
our team, who then processed the emails accordingly . We just said that the
servers would be “down” at night!
 
Minimum V iable Product (MVP)
An MVP is the smallest thing you can create that gives you meaningful
learning about your product. MVP is often used interchangeably with
“experiment” in the broader community . I personally tend to reserve it
specifically for tests around the  product , and not for experiments related to
other business assumptions. It is best to think about MVPs as an ongoing
process, rather than a single release. V alidation is rarely that neat and tidy .
 
 
Scientific Method
I think the best way to explain the scientific method is to quote the
theoretical physicist, Richard Feynman:

“In general we look for a new law by the following process: first we
guess it. Don’ t laugh -- that’ s really true. Then we compute the
consequences of the guess to see what, if this law is right, what it would
imply . Then we compare those computation results to nature, i.e.
experiment and experience. We compare it directly to observation to see if
it works.
“If it disagrees with experiment, it’ s wrong. That simple statement is the
key to science. It doesn’ t make a dif ference how beautiful your guess is, it
doesn’ t make a dif ference how smart you are, who made the guess or what
his name is -- if it disagrees with experiment, it’ s wrong. That’ s all there is
to it.”  (Cornell lectur e, 1964)
 
It is relatively straightforward to apply the scientific method to business.
You accept that your ideas are hypotheses. Y ou make them as specific as
possible so that you can guess the results, i.e. the implications, of your
hypotheses. Y ou design and run an experiment. If your hypothesized results
do not match the results of your experiment, your hypothesis is proven
wrong. However , business is about people, and people are highly complex
and inconsistent compared to laws of nature. So if your experiment fails,
you will still need to apply judgement about whether the errors are in the
hypothesis or in the experiment.s

 

Other Learning Resources
Authors
The two seminal books on the topics of lean innovation and customer
development are Steve Blank and Bob Dorf ’s The Startup Owner ’s Manual
and Eric Ries’ The Lean Startup .
There are a ton of other resources out there, from books to videos and
blog posts. Rather than link to particular items and thus miss out on newer
developments, here are a few names that I recommend you pay attention to:
Alex Osterwalder , Alistair Croll, Ash Maurya, Ben Y oskowitz, Brant
Cooper , Cindy Alvarez, David Bland, Jef f Gothelf, Joel Gascoigne, Josh
Seiden, Kevin Dewalt, Laura Klein, Patrick Vlaskovits, Rob Fitzpatrick,
Salim V irani, and T ristan Kromer .
 
Talking to Humans W ebsite
On our website talkingtohumans.com , you can get worksheet pdfs and sign
up for our email list, where we send occasional notes based on useful
resources that we discover .

 

Behind the Book
Talking to Humans was written by Gif f Constable, at the instigation and
with the collaboration of Frank Rimalovski of NYU’ s Entrepreneurial
Institute, and with the wonderful illustrations of T om Fishburne.
Giff Constable ( giffconstable.com ) is a repeat entrepreneur and currently
the CEO of Neo, a global product innovation consulting company . He has
held product design and business roles in six startups, and provided M&A
and IPO services to technology firms while at Broadview/Jef feries. He was
one of the earliest adopters & bloggers of the Lean Startup movement, co-
organizes the 4,700-person Lean Lessons Learned meetup in New Y ork,
and tries to give back to the entrepreneurial community through mentoring
and speaking engagements. He lives outside of New Y ork City with his
wife, two children, and an excessively rambunctious retriever .
Giff Constable
Frank Rimalovski brings over 20 years of experience in technology
commercialization, startups and early-stage venture capital investing. He is
executive director of the NYU Entrepreneurial Institute, managing director
of the NYU Innovation V enture Fund, Adjunct Faculty at NYU’ s

Polytechnic School of Engineering, and an Instructor in the NSF’ s I-Corps
program, having trained and mentored hundreds of entrepreneurs in
customer development and lean startup methodologies. Previously , he was a
founding partner of New V enture Partners, director/entrepreneur -in-
residence at Lucent’ s New V entures Group, and has held various positions
in product management, marketing and business development at Sun
Microsystems, Apple and NeXT . He lives outside of New Y ork City with
his wife, two daughters and his increasingly mellow mutt.
Frank Rimalovski
Tom Fishburne ( marketoonist.com ) started drawing cartoons on the backs
of Harvard Business School cases. His cartoons have grown by word of
mouth to reach 100,000 business readers a week and have been featured by
the W all Street Journal, Fast Company , and the New Y ork T imes. T om is the
Founder and CEO of Marketoon Studios, a content marketing studio that
helps businesses such as Google, Kronos, and Rocketfuel reach their
audiences with cartoons. T om draws from 19 years in the marketing and
innovation trenches at Method Products, Nestle, and General Mills. He lives
near San Francisco with his wife and two daughters.

 
Tom Fishburne

Like The Book?
When Frank approached me to write this book, we both had the same goal
of giving back to the community . We debated char ging for the book, and
pondered whether the question of free versus paid would af fect how it was
perceived. But ultimately , we decided to put it out into the world for free.
 
Should you like Talking to Humans , and feel a need to contribute back to
something, we would encourage you to think about doing one or all of the
following:
 
1. Pay it back (and forward!) by mentoring another student or entrepreneur
 
2. Donate to one of our favorite causes: Charity: W ater, Girls Who Code,
Kiva or the NYU Entrepreneurial Institute
 
3. Share a link to the talkingtohumans.com website or give someone a copy
of the book
 
If this book has helped you in some small way , then that is reward enough
for us. It’ s why we did it.
 
Giff Constable and Frank Rimalovski
September 2014
talkingtohumans.com

